# cs32-final-project
My CS32 Final Project

I will be building a program to play chess with another user. The program will check user inputs for valid piece movements, keep track of the positions of the pieces on the board, and print out a chess board in the counsel using unicode for each turn. The program will end when one player is checkmated or there are no valid moves for a player to make (stalemate).

(4/17/23) Currently, I have built a chess board class that stores the state of the board and when printed, prints the board. Right now, I believe that it is possible to create the rest of the program without having to build any more classes. I think that the bulk of the problem will be figuring out how to do checks on the board state to know if moves are valid. That will be my next step. This will have to include figuring out a check for whether a player is in check. I think that building the interface for a user will be relatively simple once the methods that govern the board are finalized. The structure may change when I try to figure out stalemate because this may necessitate keeping track of all available moves as the game progresses. However, I will try to build a fully functional game before figuring out stalemate.

(5/2/23) Finished! The program is a fully functional chess game that takes user inputs from the console and prints out the board in the console. It checks for valid moves and follows all of the rules of chess. It is entirely built upon the ChessBoard class, with all of the checks being done on the board state stored in the class. The main() function does little except set up a UI, with all of the computation being done by the ChessBoard. I left lots of comments, so it should be easy to follow the logic of the program if you are interested. The program also ended up being fast, so it is a viable way to play chess :)
